---
layout: post
title:  "Price Clustering"
date:   2021-07-07 10:58:57 +0200
category: Business
image: /blog-business/assets/images/0707/0707.jpg
---
Market price (or selling price) is the current price for which an asset or service is offered in the market. It reflects an agreement between sellers and buyers on a particular product or service and is influenced by the interaction between supply and demand (Buchanan, 1968). Market price is a key factor to understand market demand and consumer needs because it plays a vital role in consumers’ purchase decisions. According to a study by Chang and Wildt (1994), there is a significant correlation between selling prices and consumers’ purchase intentions. Consumers’ purchase intentions decrease when the offered price is higher than the expected price (Novansa and Ali, 2017). The price of a new product should match consumers’ expected value to create a comparative advantage. A wrong pricing strategy makes companies lose their product competitiveness and causes a direct impact on customer satisfaction and brand loyalty. Selling price has a more significant impact on product sales than any other product improvements (Cecere et al., 2018). Besides, from a marketing perspective, selling price is crucial to the success of promotion activities (Everett Rogers, 1995; Mirabi et al., 2015; Brata et al., 2017).
<br><br>Additionally, market prices are the foundations of the economic analysis in the market-driven product design framework. The economic analysis evaluates the economic attractiveness of a product design project by comparing market prices with various manufacturing solutions. Market prices indicate the expected revenue of the project, and manufacturing solutions show the potential cost of it. A product design project should focus not only on improving the product quality but also on achieving the desired quality in an economical way (Mital et al., 2014). Market prices enable companies to determine the manufacturing budget that includes materials and labor costs. Estimating the manufacturing budget during the early design stage is crucial to the design project because designers can flexibly adjust the product design to achieve expected good quality with a reasonable cost structure (Mital et al., 2014). Hence, an effective product design process should start from understanding market prices.
<br><br>Identifying price levels is an effective way to understand market prices. Price level is a measure of overall prices across goods or services. Moon et al. (2006) pointed out that price levels affect the perceived value of products. A study by Winer (1986) showed that consumers were accustomed to making purchase decisions by comparing products at the same price level. Moreover, Shaw (1991) emphasized that consumers would first notice the price level of the desired product, then the actual price of it. Thus, he concluded that a good pricing strategy should consider the price level before determining the actual product price. Ingenbleek et al. (2013) also indicated that price levels are essential elements in developing solid product strategies because there are different competitors, customer groups, and customer preferences at each price level. A value-informed product strategy could have a significant positive impact on market performance.
<br><br>Clustering is an ideal way to identify price levels in the markets. It is a technique that classifies data objects into different groups based on the similarities among these objects (Xu and Wunsch, 2009). Clustering in prices has been widely used in different fields to understand markets and support firms in making business decisions. For example, Ni et al. (2005) used clustering techniques to investigate the patterns of stock prices. The research results helped traders make price predictions with higher precision. Palmon et al. (2004) clustered the retail prices of real estates and compared the transaction outcomes in different price groups. They found a significant correlation between the list prices and transaction outcomes, proving once again that price levels have a great influence on consumers’ purchase decisions. Moreover, Calantone et al. (2007) used clustering techniques to group newly launched products to support companies in developing product strategies. They concluded that a sound pricing strategy should take the competitive products at the same price level into account. Companies needed to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their pricing strategies and other operational policies.

<br><b>References</b>:
<br><cite>Buchanan, J. M. (1968). The demand and supply of public goods (Ser. Rand McNally economics series, 1968: 1). Rand McNally.</cite>
<br><cite>Chang, T.-Z., & Wildt, A. R. (1994). Price, Product Information, and Purchase Intention: An Empirical Study. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 22(1), 16–27.</cite>
<br><cite>Novansa, H., & Ali, H. (2017). Purchase Decision Model: Analysis of Brand Image, Brand Awareness and Price (Case Study SMECO Indonesia SME products). Saudi Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences, 2(8), 621–632.</cite>
<br><cite>Cecere, G., Corrocher, N., & Guerzoni, M. (2018). Price or performance? A probabilistic choice analysis of the intention to buy electric vehicles in European countries. Energy Policy, 118, 19–32.</cite>
<br><cite>Rogers, E. (1995), Diffusion of Innovation, 4th ed., Free Press, New York, NY.</cite>
<br><cite>Mirabi, V., Akbariyeh, H., & Tahmasebifard, H. (2015). A Study of Factors Affecting on Customers Purchase Intention. Journal of Multidisciplinary Engineering Science and Technology.</cite>
<br><cite>Brata, B. H., Husani, S., & Ali, H. (2017). The Influence of Quality Products, Price, Promotion, and Location to Product Purchase Decision on Nitchi At PT. Jaya Swarasa Agung in Central Jakarta. Saudi Journal of Business and Management Studies, 2(4B), 433–445.</cite>
<br><cite>Mital, A. (2014). Product development: a structured approach to consumer product development, design, and manufacture (Second). Elsevier.</cite>
<br><cite>Moon, J., Chadee, D., & Tikooc, S. (2008). Culture, product type, and price influences on consumer purchase intention to buy personalized products online. Journal of Business Research, 61(1), 31–39. </cite>
<br><cite>Winer, Russell S. (1986). A Reference Price Model of Brand Choice for Frequently Purchased Products. Journal of Consumer Research, 13, 250–256. </cite>
<br><cite>Shaw, M. (1991). Positioning and Price: Merging Theory, Strategy, and Tactics. Hospitality Research Journal.</cite>
<br><cite>Ingenbleek, P. T. M., Frambach, R. T., & Verhallen, T. M. M. (2013). Best practices for new product pricing: impact on market performance and price level under different conditions. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 30(3), 560–573.</cite>
<br><cite>Xu, R., & Wunsch, D. C. (2009). Clustering (Ser. Ieee series on computational intelligence). Wiley.</cite>
<br><cite>Ni, S. X., Pearson, N. D., & Poteshman, A. M. (2005). Stock price clustering on option expiration dates. Journal of Financial Economics, 78(1), 49–87.</cite>
<br><cite>Palmon, O., Smith, B., & Sopranzetti, B. (2004). Clustering in real estate prices: determinants and consequences. Journal of Real Estate Research, 26(2), 115–136.</cite>
<br><cite>Calantone, R. J., & Di Benedetto, C. A. (2007). Clustering product launches by price and launch strategy. The Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, 22(1), 4–19.</cite>
